I'm taping, okay?
I'm talking to Mario Puzo.
Congratulations, sir.
Thank you.
I wonder, I have a sense that there's a love-hate here like Hollywood and Vegas.
I'm wondering about the twin themes here.
You know, there's places that I know, you know, so a writer likes to write about places that they know.
I guess it was Time Magazine that suggested maybe you're settling a few scores with some Hollywood text.
Is there anything to that?
Not really.
I'm not subconsciously, you know.
But I wasn't doing it to sales.
I had a good time in Hollywood.
I mean, you know, I like the people, give birth, and, you know.
So I guess
It's really trying to show them as they are.
You know, I don't necessarily disapprove of what they do.
Of course, there's a suggestion about the Ernest Bale character, who I thought was quite wonderful.
Well, I mean, you had a similar in terms of the threat, but you were kind of basically screwed on The Godfather.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I guess you were more or less drawing on personal experience.
Oh, sure.
And, you know, twice I had to sue to get my money, you know.
Can you tell me, and I've already seen it with the first few reviews that have appeared, I read the book, I couldn't put it down.
I took it with me on a trip, and it was wonderful.
But clearly the comparisons with The Godfather are inevitable.
Were you mindful of that?
Yeah, I knew it would be compared, you know, but so what?
You know, it didn't make any difference.
I was writing what I thought was another book, you know.
It's sort of like, you know, it's the world I know best, you know, fictionally.
How important is it for you to get it right?
There's this sense, certainly they talk about the mafia guys the first time around.
I heard stories that you used to get bottles of champagne at restaurants and you'd look up and there would be people, you know.
Yeah, a couple of times, you know, not much so.
But you did kind of, there was a sense that you mythologized that culture.
I mean, that was, it struck me, I'm not a realist, you know.
You say you're not a realist.
No.
I mean, it's like, excuse me, I just wanted to say this a thing.
Do you hate living always in a house?
Yeah, because in my house, I feel like I've got everything under control.
Once I go into a hotel, I'm sure, shut up the mercy, you know?
It's like you don't have control anymore, you know?
I read also that the phrase, the godfather, that really was not a word that was used until you invented it.
No, that's my proudest boast.
And, of course, you realize that word has entered the language.
Yeah.
Like you had Coach Mark Trotter's book?
Like me and my friend Joe Heller.
Catch-22.
Yeah.
So it's amazing that, you know, we've been friends for, what, 40 years or something?
Played cards together and, you know, working on our first books and we're still friends.
So it's an amazing coincidence that he gave Catch-22 to the language and I gave Godfrey.
Yeah.
Now, that's something I would like to explore.
I mean, you are buddies going back before either one of you.
Before we published.
How did that happen?
How did you?
Well, I knew a friend of his at the New School, George Mendel, who was also a writer, very, the most talented of the three of us, in fact.
He introduced me to Joe.
We became friends.
We used to play cards.
You know, working guys working on books, they're also wanting to have a card game, you know, stuff like that.
And, you know,
You talk about literature, you play cards, you know, it was a night out, you know.
And it's like, you know, and it continued over the years, you know.
Did you ever talk about, I mean, did you ever kind of fantasize about the kind of success both of you have enjoyed?
Yeah.
That's amazing, isn't it?
Now, he hit it in 61.
61 was catch-22.
It was in 61?
I hadn't known them a long time ago, but I remember that George Mandel tried to peddle the book for him.
He used to carry it on.
George Mandel had already been published, see.
And, uh, what did it look like?
When you were in part of a street mob, you know, like when you were kids.
Sometimes we'd talk books, and most of the time not.
We were just saying how he and his good friend Joe Heller both gave to the world words that invented the language, the Godfather, in Catch-22, the phrase, which actually... Catch-22, he made that up, you know.
Well, it was actually going to be Catch-48 or something.
At first, he was going to call it
Yeah, but the Israeli guy... Yeah, Leon Urich, I guess, had a book on Milo or something.
Yeah, he used that number, so he had to change the number.
Yeah, he changed the number.
Yeah, I've read that story.
Catch-22's... But even then, it has entered the language even as it has a context, and the Godfather, of course, prior to your use of the word was, you know, you baptized a child, and now, of course, it has a cultural context to it.
The equivalent would be if...
I turned the term uncle and aunt into, it became automatically dancers.
You told somebody your aunt or your uncle.
It says, I invented a new meaning for the word, purely by writing.
You know, it wasn't like I'm going to invent a new meaning for the word.
It comes from the whole horror of the book.
So that order particularly fits and particularly sits in the imagination.
Now, you said you're not a realist?
I'm not a realistic novelist, no.
What are you then?
Romantic novelist.
You know, my books about the mafia are myths, they're not reality.
So when I see something like that, New York Magazine, when it had these three experts saying the mafia is completely different, of course it is.
Their mafia is not my mafia.
Of course, their mafia meaning the real mafia.
Yeah.
And I read that piece in New York, and they said, well, these guys are really vicious, stupid, cutthroat individuals.
They're not my guys.
But your guys, really, there is an aura of, you have romanticized them to it.
Yeah.
And I get that from the Sicilian mafia.
That's how they were at one time.
They were really, you know,
what I make them out to be, or close to it.
The American Mafia I don't think was ever close to that.
So, where did you—you say you're not a realistic writer, but there certainly is an attention to detail.
You certainly know the ambiance of an Italian neighborhood.
But I'm not exposing the evil of working in mines, or the evil of the criminal front, or what—I'm not a realist.
I'm not a realist.
in the sense that Zola is a realist, you know, or Balzac.
I don't know what you would call Balzac or Mr. Prydom.
But I think of myself as a romantic writer.
And yet, you know, I've been told that I'm so gruel and this and that, but it's bullshit.
I'm a very sore part of writing.
You notice I never condemn any of my characters, hardly ever than I know of.
And to the bad guys that get croaked, too, usually.
Yeah.
I mean, even guys you don't like, ah, they had a good side to you.
I mean, that's all I do.
One of the things I enjoyed about this book, and the criticisms I have of so many other books, is that I really do have, the characterizations are really clear.
I mean, I really have a sense
a picture of a character by the name.
I mean, it's not just one character after all of these wooden characters with names.
You really have done a pretty nice job, I think, of giving them personalities and developing them.
Did you have any models for these, or are they strictly all inventions?
They're models in the sense that when I was a kid, there were certain figures in the neighborhood that got respect, you know.
You didn't quite know why, but they got it.
But even they, you didn't pick it in as gangsters.
They were like a facility, like the Red Cross, or you go to see your congressman, you know.
These were the guys that could solve the trouble.
Did you feel a sense of, now this was the first book in what, six, eight years?
Five years.
And I know that you've been sick in the interim.
Was there a sense of anxiety in your part about, you know, the ballplayers, they bring in the heat and everything?
Yeah, sure.
You know, that's where Carol was a big help, and John was a big help.
He encouraged me, you know.
And how about, you know, you said in your piece, John, that it really required very little editing, apparently.
No, but that's not really true, because he had sent me, what was it?
six-page memorandum, eight-page memorandum, with about 60 things to be fixed.
So I fixed them.
He was right about 90, 95 percent of the time, where I disagreed, I told him.
But otherwise, actually, within that criticism he gave in a book, I collected that criticism, so he was happy with the end result.
And apparently the title came
Much later, you had your color.
Well, the color I wanted was the Claracruzio.
Nobody else wanted it.
Even my darling girlfriend there, my consigliera, she voted against me.
I was willing to fight John.
I was willing to fight Random House.
I wasn't willing to fight that.
So, really then, you don't really visualize this particular character as the last gun.
Because I understand you're also considering another novel.
In a sense, I don't think that democracy can operate in the open anymore.
They have to operate under a legal quote for some time, like big business does.
Big business does terrible things, but it's illegal.
That's why I say the last son.
He's going to pass into the structure of American business, and then he can do things
You know, the first two books that you did, you don't mind my jumping around the block here.
I mean, I read the book, and I love the book, and so it's kind of foolish of me to ask you questions for answers, and I already know.
Your first two books were considered very literary books, and in fact, one of the words they used was E. Nelson Hayes from your first book.
you know, on that little pitch for the very first novel with a Boston book.
By Nelson Aldrin?
No, it's a guy, a reviewer, by the name of E. Nelson Hayes, who reviewed the book on The Globe.
He used to review books for me years ago when I was a book editor.
He's now dead.
He loved that book.
And, I mean, did you despair, I mean, at any point that, Jesus Christ, I'm writing these beautiful, literary books?
Sure, that's why I wrote The Grandfather.
At the end of The Fortunate Pilgrim, where I got wonderful
I mean, the New York Times itself called it a small classic.
I wish I had left out the small, but, you know, that's good enough, right?
So that was my second novel.
I published two novels, and I was poorer than when I started.
And I grew up believing that if you publish a novel, you automatically became rich and famous and, you know.
Especially one that was good.
Yeah.
Well, you got terrific, terrific reviews.
And then I couldn't even sell it to a paperback house.
That pissed me off more than anything else.
I always used to brag to my family and my friends.
I could write a bestseller whenever I wanted.
I wouldn't demean myself to write a bestseller.
I certainly would never sell a book of mine to the movies.
That's kind of bullshit, but I was a young guy, you know?
This is idealism, huh?
This was kind of the idealism of youth.
Yeah, well, I grew up in a culture, when we all went down to New School after the war, everybody wanted to be a great writer.
The biggest insult you could tell a guy is that if you write for the movies, you're going to sell your book for the movies.
Selling artists.
I love that phrase, you're selling.
What the hell do we do this for?
Not to make a buck.
Yeah, well, you've got to make a living.
And I must say, I believe
All the principles, like, I was taught, you know, in the literature, real serious literature process, in the novel, everything must conform to the, there should be nothing extraneous about it.
Even if you write something really good, if it doesn't belong in that book, if it's something absolutely necessary to that book, you shouldn't cut it out.
So I did that on my first book.
But in the Godfather, I threw everything in it.
Because it was funny, because it was exciting.
So as far as the overall structure of the book, you can find a lot of fault that I had a lot of stuff in there that you should have thrown out.
But some of it was some of the most funny and interesting stuff in the book.
So I came around the other way, you know.
In other words, I came piece by piece to write in a bestseller.
I determined to write a bestseller.
Mindfully.
Huh?
You mindfully set out something.
I set out to write a bestseller.
I studied all the bestsellers.
Did you?
Yeah.
Well, who in particular impressed you?
Uh, who were they?
Uh, Kyle Robbins, who really was a very good writer at one point.
Yeah, and also a very crafty writer.
You know, he was a very crafty guy.
And he started off as a serious quote writer, and was smart enough to know he had to write bestsellers.
But the thing is, I don't see why you can't write a bestseller in a serious book.
You know, a so-called literary book.
Yeah, I mean, it seems that once you make a lot of money... They've got it for you.
I must say, you know, I have to say the critics have treated me wonderfully well.
I have absolutely no complaints about it.
I might.
On all my books, it seems like I got, you know, I got some bad reviews, but as I keep saying, you can't put your mill hitter against the critics.
No novelist can.
So it seems like I haven't put it together.
I got the next of it, you know, on every book.
Even the children's book I would.
How do you know you wrote a children's book?
Yeah, wrote a children's book.
The New Yorker has never mentioned any of my novels.
They gave my children's book a terrific review.
It's the only time I ever appeared in a New Yorker.
What was the name of the children's book?
The Summer of Davy Shore or something like that.
You're kidding.
You don't have it on the press?
Did you know that?
No, I saw it in a bookshelf.
The New Yorker magazine gave me a big review.
What's it about?
Huh?
Is it for little kids or young readers?
No, no.
Actually, what it was was Home Alone.
I wasn't smart enough to be as obvious as Home Alone.
It's about kids' parents go to Europe without them.
and leave them all alone in America to stay with his grandfather.
He runs away from his grandfather and he travels all across the country.
What's the name of my children's book, honey?
Oh, The Runaway Summer of Davey Shaw.
What did I say?
The Runaway Summer of Davey Shaw.
Davey, D-A-V-E-Y?
S-H-O-R-E?
S-H-A-W-S-N.
Oh, Shaw.
Yeah, Shaw.
But I knocked that out to make a couple of thousand books while I was writing The Godfather.
you know, because it's an extra source of cash.
I wrote it, I think, in a month.
So there comes the New Yorker magazine for the first time giving me the time of day, you know?
And did this come out prior to The Godfather or after it?
Oh, prior to The Godfather.
But they didn't notice any of the other books?
No, never mentioned my name.
So why do you suppose that is?
They don't like them.
I'm not alliterating.
That's irrelevant.
I mean, they're pretty clear when they don't like things.
I mean, they say
I don't think they considered me important enough to review.
Would that bother you at some point?
No, no.
I love the New Yorker.
New York is my favorite magazine.
Still even with the new group that's running it?
Yep, still my favorite, but they give you stuff that no other magazine gives you.
I would have always loved to have been noticed.
I remember my first book, I felt very complimented when Patterson Reviews destroyed me.
To be destroyed by partisan review was such a... It's an honor.
It's a coup.
It's a coup to be destroyed by partisan.
They take you seriously enough to destroy you, you know?
And New York had never paid attention to The Godfather.
I was not to that taste.
I assume.
You mean you don't even slightly get a little pissed off when you see a bad review?
No, I really, I'll tell you, you know what I feel like?
Like on a Godfather, I got, I think, 99% good reviews.
So, I read a bad review, I think it was in the Daily Times, I forget the guy's name, who was pissed off on me for selling out, because I had an alliterated review.
Now, I read that review, I've got 99 solid reviews.
You know what I think of this guy?
He was smart enough to find out how fake I was.
You know, like, he's the guy that really was on to me.
I fooled the other 99 guys, but he was too smart.
Are you teasing me now, or are you mindfully trying to fool people?
Huh?
Are you teasing me now, or are you mindfully trying to fool people, do you think?
He said, I fooled the 99, I fooled... It's a way of thinking... Negatively.
It's very common with actors and actresses.
You know, just...
Ninety-nine people from London.
One person hates them.
They're ready to commit suicide.
So when you're thinking, I'm going to write a bestseller, there are bestsellers and there are 21 million books.
Did you ever, in your wildest expectations, think that it would have that kind of an impact?
No.
A book about gangsters would have that kind of an impact?
I knew it would make money.
But I think, I thought maybe it would make a hundred grand, which is a fortune.
I didn't know that all this was going to happen.
In fact, I used to think, why this book has distinguished from other books?
Why would this book make so much money, sell so many copies?
This was before the movie came out.
It wasn't like the movie sold the book.
One of a few cases where a movie absolutely does justice to the book.
I thought the first two movies were just... Well, the first movie I thought was terrific.
But that was Francis Coppola, you know.
That was his movie, and it was his talent that made that into such a movie.
And also his courage.
He had to do a lot of fighting to get the people he wanted, to do it the way he wanted.
Well, but to go back, what do you think there is about that book that resonated so much?
I think because it's a fairy tale.
Really?
An American theory, too.
Yeah.
It's a very romantic novel.
It's a very family novel.
I mean, I think of it as a family novel whose business happened to be against the law.
Otherwise, the family values, the family problems, you know.
This concept of giving people deals they can't refuse, is that something you made up?
No, that's something I made up.
Because it makes perfect sense.
No, also, it's funny.
You know, when you're writing a book, you're trying to have fun, too.
You know, you have your own private jokes, you know, in the book.
And that struck me as a very funny idea, you know.
So that's the way it worked out.
And in this book, you have the communion and the... I made that up, too.
That makes perfect sense, too.
Yeah.
There are cases, like in Jimmy Hoffa, where you want them to disappear.
Right.
There are other cases where...
So you invent something to give it a little more jazz, you know.
I mean, do you have any technical experts, any people that are... No.
And by technical experts, I mean monsters.
Actually, from the research, they weren't smart enough to do some of the things they had to do.
You mean the monsters?
I had to make them smarter than they were.
You mean the Godfather and this book as well?
Yeah.
From there, I got it from the old Sassanian guys.
They were that smart.
They were?
Yeah.
I mean, the way you set up the hit on the guy that killed the girl out in the post.
Are you much of a rewriter?
Do you do a lot of revisions?
Oh, yeah.
In fact, my first dress of a book is so terrible that I would never show it anymore.
Really?
By the time John got to see any copy, I must have rewritten it about five times.
It's an automatic process because
To get into the move to work, I usually read all the pages I've written, up to that date, you know?
When's your best, when's your primary time?
Morning?
Does it matter?
I go in the streets.
If I'm hot on the book, I work every day, every hour.
You know, I hang around and typewriter.
And you do work on a manual typewriter, I guess, right?
None of this work process?
No.
No modern stuff.
I can't remember.
Are you one of these perfectionists who likes clean copy?
No.
Very sloppy.
So if you screw up a page, you don't necessarily pull it away.
I'll put this through the computer for me.
I see.
Tell them how the couch figures in your writing.
The what?
Oh, my wife?
No, the couch.
The couch.
Your couch.
The couch at your house, apparently.
Is that right?
Yeah, you told me that you lie down on your couch, you stare at the ceiling,
And that's it.
My wife used to say she never saw me work.
She never saw me science.
Well, there's a wonderful old New Yorker cartoon, which is a sugar guy in a hammock, and his wife is standing there.
He says, listen, a writer isn't always writing when he's writing.
And I think that's true.
Do you ever wake up in the morning with solutions to problems?
Oh, sure.
When something's really bugging you about how you're resolving a certain situation?
I mean, I'm...
In the morning, the first thing I have to do is read the papers.
I read the Times, and I read the News, have my breakfast, read the papers.
It takes a couple of hours, and then I try to work.
When I'm going good, I have no patience.
I don't read the papers.
I work before I read the papers.
That's a sign that I'm working very well.
Do you see these things whole?
Did you have an idea of what this book was?
Is this one of these things that revealed itself to you?
In all my books, you write, and as you write, things come to you.
You think out some things sometimes, but really the best stuff comes when you sit down at the top while you're writing something else, or something else you think of.
It's a mystery to me.
When I finish a book, I wonder, how did I fill out those pages of humor?
You know what I mean?
It's really, really a mystery.
All of a sudden, there's 700, 800 pages of manuscript.
I have no idea how you got there.
Do you like a nice big book?
Do you like big, fat books?
Yeah, I like room.
I would love someday to write one little short, two before, since, you know, like 200 pages, you know.
But so far, I haven't been able to do it.
So what's in the works?
What are you thinking of?
Even worse, I'm thinking of
writing a mafia novel that extends through the 1300s when it started to now.
You're kidding.
Well, are you going to do research for this, or is it going to be... Well, I'll have to do some extra research, but the early history of the mafia is fascinating.
But how to put it into fiction is a problem, you know, to make a novel.
Well, a lot of this is, I mean, there certainly is enough published material on this.
Oh, yeah.
There's a big literature on the ground.
That's a pet word of yours, I think, the literature on the subject.
Yeah, because it is a literature, you know.
I read something that you're a voracious reader, because I'm a boxer.
My passion, I'm just curious, does your reading influence your writing at all?
It used to be, when I was trying to finish a novel, I'd try to keep books out of my house.
that would keep me from writing, but I don't have to do that anymore.
I've got enough discipline where the reading, I think, doesn't interfere with my writing.
What do you read?
Do you read other novelists?
Do you read history?
I read everything practically.
Or try to read everything.
Tell them how many books a year you buy.
Huh?
Oh, I know I spend over 10 grand, 15 grand a year on books.
Really?
So I would come out to about 500 books, I think.
You're kidding.
Do you go to bookstores or do you have somebody go get them for you?
Sometimes I go to the bookstores.
Sometimes I make out with somebody else.
Oh, new books or do you like secondhand books?
No, new books.
Because I love secondhand bookstores.
I used to.
I used to love secondhand.
But now, um, you get rich, you buy books.
It took me one time.
I just wrote a book about
That's why I'm interested in that.
Yeah, but I don't bribe them to keep them.
I'll keep a book if I really love it, because I'll reread it.
I've read McMurtry's Lonesome Doug at least two or four times.
It's such a pleasure to read.
You read it like as a carpenter might study
the workmanship, are you reading it as a fellow professional looking at how it's done, are you reading it?
You learn tricks with the other guy, how he solves problems.
I think critics don't really talk enough about the craft.
There's a lot of conflict for you, you know?
Well, I have to say, I'm pretty good at figuring out where things are going.
and I'll never give this away in my piece, but you got me in that last little thing with the old guy.
I didn't see it coming either.
I didn't know what he was going to do.
He absolutely suckered me on that one.
That's what you're trying to do all the time.
And that's where the title, by the way, is absolutely perfect.
It makes sense.
I said, shit, he's not the last one.
But he was.
He set it up and he actually sanctioned in his own way
knocking off Dante because Dante was a menace, and this guy was bad for business and bad for the plan to assimilate themselves into the general society, so he absolutely sanctioned that in a way.
Now, I would say clearly that you set yourself up for a sequel here.
I mean, you've got characters in place, and Cross is a young enough man, and he's got money.
And I don't think he's going to be working with this autistic child for his entire life.
I mean, I have to feel that at some point... Well, I had a scene that I had to cut out of the book because John, Paul, well, I don't think I thought... There was a scene where Cross was... Well, I don't want to be explicit, but if she's signaling me, I shouldn't tell you.
I won't use it.
I'd sure like to know.
Tell us.
I mean, he won't use it.
I won't use it.
You can trust me.
What do you say?
He's got an Italian name.
He's trustworthy.
I'm Greek, actually, but that's okay.
But I wanted to have a scene at the end where Athena tells Cross, I know what you're thinking.
If my daughter doesn't get better, you'll kill her so you can have me all for yourself.
Don't do that, because I won't
And I'll say it right on my tape, I won't use it, I promise.
And he said, he thinks it all, he says, okay, I promise I won't kill it.
It's just like a... It's a proof.
You know, people don't want to read that, you know, where... I think you were correct to take it out, actually.
Over there, both told me I'd be crazy if I... His character, you've really got, he's a very empathetic character.
Yeah.
But still, in real life, he would have given... Well, in real life, would he have paid a $250 million ransom to save the other guy's life, too?
I wonder.
That's why I say I'm a romantic guy.
The reason I didn't think it was even necessary was because I felt that that menace was implied, especially in the scene where Cross and Athena are together, and Cross thinks that Athena may have killed her daughter, and Athena thinks that Cross has probably killed her daughter.
So they both think they're capable of murder, and yet they're both in love with each other.
And so I didn't think he needed to go any further.
And plus also, she, as she says, she arranged for the hit.
She set it up.
She basically, she engaged him.
And she knew instantly, she said, that he was going to take care of it.
He did it in the fourth case, too, where a president of the United States allows an atomic bomb foa.
It's this very subtle psychological, and it's all about crossing that ethical line.
And that is, of course, American values.
I mean, you are a very patriotic American, and your character is
in their own bizarre way.
I mean, that is ever so clear when it's apparent that they can legalize sportsbook, you know, gambling and professional sports if they knock off the president.
But are you kidding?
This is outrageous.
We're Americans, for God's sake.
I mean, who do you think we are, traitors?
You know?
Well, they were very patriotic, one of those guys.
But I mean, there is a system of values that they embody, isn't there?
I think.
Let's see.
We haven't even talked about it.
Now, you're a New Yorker, right?
But yet you know this Hollywood and Las Vegas world so exquisitely well, I think.
And one wonders, when you profile these Hollywood people, you know, who the biggest crooks are, you know?
Are they the one?
I mean, it's...
Do you, in fact, have contempt for a lot of these movie people?
I don't know whether the right word is contempt.
I think I'm sort of amazed by it, if you will.
You know, again, I've had a good time in Hollywood.
I've made some good friends out there.
But essentially, the business itself...
is really so cold-blooded.
I mean, you get the feeling that no matter what, you have to have a lawyer.
I mean, if you're going to marry somebody, you've got to have a good lawyer.
If you have a deal with somebody, you've got to have a good lawyer.
If you're best friends to somebody, you have to have a document saying, this is my best friend, you know.
It's like a very uneasy atmosphere, for me anyway.
I read someplace, and I may even use the line myself, I mean, these are two cities.
One, you make a lot of money in one, and you loose it in the other.
That's a cute little observation.
And the villains, I guess,
Are they designed on any particular, are they modeled on any particular casino that has villas like that?
Well, you don't have villas like that.
Well, first, at the Beverly Hills Hotel, they had their bungalows.
In Vegas, Steve Wynn's place, the Mirage, they had these special bungalows.
They reserved for very high rollers.
You can't rent them or anything.
He has his own private golf course with these high rolls, you know.
So, what I did was just a hint of what, you know, goes on.
You did give a few tips.
I mean, I've gone to a few casinos myself, and there are some tips to gamblers here.
Yeah.
Don't gamble for more than two hours at a time.
Oh, yeah, that's standard.
Don't press your bets when you're getting hit and killed.
Too bad I couldn't take it myself.
This is a problem.
Would you mind about the handicapped in gambling?
Huh?
About the handicapped in gambling, they feel that, you know, God owes them one or something so that they gamble more?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
What was that?
Handicapped people.
You see more wheelchairs in Vegas.
Because they feel they've got something coming to them.
God has been so terrible to them by taking off their legs or something.
It's surely who we pay them at the table.
Never happens.
No.
I've been at the tables and you see some guy come in, a black guy or a Hispanic guy, you know, who's out of Atlantic City, and the guy will take out his last $5 bill, you know, and he'll buy a chip.
And, you know, the story would be, he parlays this, you know.
7-0, you know, straight away.
He's gone.
I'm against gambling casinos now.
You know, like a true hypocrite.
When you get older, you reject your vices on the behalf of everyone, you know.
Really?
Is that right?
Yeah.
They've gone too far with the casinos, with the lotteries.
What's your game of choice?
You mentioned Baccarat in here.
Actually, I love Loretta in any of the games.
Really?
And I've been luckier at Loretta.
What time is the next time?
He's been at 4.
Okay.
Well, you can help him out.
What is it?
I've got, you know, again, this is icing on the cake for me.
It is.
Let me just ask you one quick question.
I've interviewed Peter Benchley, you know, in the past.
Of course, one of the things is after he wrote Jaws, everybody was out to kill sharks.
You know, I mean, sharks...
And I wonder if, in a similar kind of a way, if Italians are having to bear the cross as being identified, you know, every time you see somebody with a name that ends in a vowel, you know, there's the unfair assumption that they're connected in some way.
I have to put up with it myself.
A lot of people think I'm connected.
But did it get happened because I'm the godfather?
Right.
That's right.
That's one of the unhappy consequences.
Yeah, but it's all bullshit anyway.
I mean...
It's not relevant to a writer.
I mean, you can't worry about that.
And then also, these books are written in a very visual way.
Also, they're wonderful people these patterns.
They cook good food.
They have good music.
They have a good time.
They have respect for their elders.
I mean, what more do you want from the people?
They're in a rough business, that's all.
That's a wonderful one.
That's almost the kicker to my piece.
I've always got my lead, and I'm always looking for my kicker.
You just gave me the kicker.
Were you thinking movies, though?
Because you've had a lot of experience in film.
What do you mean, when I was writing this book?
This book, yeah.
I was pretty sure this would be both a film.
But I mean, when you were writing it, were you thinking visually?
Not particularly.
I certainly see scenes here.
It's not going to be that hard to adapt this thing to the screen.
I may have consciously written some
cinematic themes on this book.
I don't know whether I did or not, but maybe I did.
I don't know.
I've got plenty of stuff.
Would you inscribe a couple of books for me?
Sure, I will.